VELO 2 half alignment stability: The plot shows the stability of the alignment of the VELO halves during all Run II fills. Each point is obtained running the online alignment procedure and shows the difference between the initial alignment constants (the ones used in the previous fill) and the new ones computed by the alignment. It is normal that the alignment constants evaluated for 2 different fills may vary just due to statistical fluctuations even without real movement as different input data samples are used. Before updating the alignment it must thus be checked that the variation is significant (in the plot the red or the blue points must be outside the horizontal lines at +- 2 um). It can be seen for example that for the first fill the y translation goes above the threshold so the alignment will be updated. The second points will thus be the variations with respect to the first alignment. As the variation is not significant the alignment is not updated and also the third points are again with respect to the first alignment. This is a bit a simplification because the degrees of freedom to consider are more than the two shown there but it shows the concept well enough. 


RICH1 primary mirror stability plots: stability of the RICH1 primary mirrors alignment constants for rotations around the local y-axis of the individual mirrors for alignments performed on runs taken between 24/05/2016 and 24/08/2016. Alignments number 0-5 were performed on runs of the first magnet down period, alignments 6-10 were performed on the following magnet up period, alignments 11-14 were performed on the second magnet down period.
The value that is shown on the y-axis is the difference between the alignment constants that were put into the condDB at the beginning of data-taking in 2016 and the alignment constant determined by the alignment. No update of the alignment constants for the RICH detectors was made after the beginning of 2016.
The grey dotted indicate the region where variations are expected due to limited statitics and the limited precision of the method itself.
